Summary: Bitcoin Evolution

	Bitcoin was launched in January of 2009 and is currently the most successful cryptocurrency, with a market capitalization of over
$41 billion and each bitcoin being worth $2,500 USD. It was initially invented by Satoshi Nakamoto (which may be one or more individuals). 
A whitepaper outlining it conceptually was posted on a cryptography mailing list on October 21, 2008. It was described as “a new electronic cash
system that’s fully peer-to-peer, with no trusted third party” (www.metzdowd.com/pipermail/cryptography/2008-October/014810.html).Interestingly, 
the advances in algorithms, distributed software and hardware that have fueled its astonishing exchange rate and market value, happened outside of 
the corporate and political worlds. Bitcoin was built by individuals with a passion for changing the way currencies are exchanged and function. 
These advances have evolveed into a globally distrubted blockchain that is supported by hardware running the same algorithm, but strewn worldwide.
	Bitcoin mining is what makes transactions consistent and dependable. While the initial hardware used to mine bitcoins was developed outside
of the corporate world, that has mostly changed, with intensely-energy efficient corporate-owned data centers, using application-++specific integrated 
circuits (ASICs), ruling what was once a hobbyists world. These companies are becoming fewer and fewer, and they are placing these data centers in areas 
with the least amount of overhead. 
	The incentive to mine comes in the form of a block reward and transaction fees paid by Bitcoin. Block rewards are made in the form of BTC's, 
which halve every 210,000 blocks and will never exceed 21 million in total. Because of this system, by 2032, 99% of all will have been mined. Additionally,
as new machines are added to the system, and network mining capacity increases, each machine gets a smaller percentage of the daily bounty of 1,800 BTC's,
Thus, the system is constantly self-adjusting. 
	While, the value of a BTC in US dollars has risen mostly steadily, there have been periods of volatility ("bubbles"). How hard it is to mine a BTC has 
also increased over time, due to an increase in the number of machines added to the system. The effect of this fierce competition amongst miners has been the 
birth of increasingly sophisticated mining software and a transition from usage of CPUs to GPUs to FPGAs (field-programmable gate arrays). This in turn has led 
to fierce competition amongst miners to acquire these new technologies so as to outcompete other machines/data centers and remain profitable. When machines/data 
centers lose this competitive edge, the must simply "unplug." Another interesting outcome of the evolution of Bitcoin are secondary markets that design and sell 
equipment to these miners or run data centers for them (allowign them to be shareholders), ButterflyLabs and ASICMiner being early examples of these emerging 
markets, respectively. Along with these emerging markets, there have been successive generations of Bitcoin miners, following this schema: 1st generation - CPUs,
2nd generation - GPUs, 3rd generation - FPGAs, 4th generation - "ASIC Race," 5th generation - "ASIC War," 6th generation - "ASIC Victors." The latter 3 generations
introduced companies like Butterfly Labs, ASICMiner, Avalon, Bitfury, KnCMiner, Hashfast, Cointerra, Bitmain, Spondoolies, with the main "victors" being Bitfury 
and Bitmain.
	The amazing thing about this evolution has actually been its benefit to other companies/industries via rapid development of the above-mentioned algorithms, 
software and hardware. These tools are now allowing other "planet-scale applications" to meet the needs increasing numbers of user, similar in scale to the Bitcoin 
user population. Companies like Apple, Facebook and Google, to name a few are now using these tools to run Siri, Facebook Live and Brain, respectively. Much like 
other technologic revolutions within human history, a race to gain wealth has given birth to a multitude of varying uses for the intital tools used to gain that wealth.

